[Shovel Hitting Dirt]
[Sheep Bleating]
Crusaders
Clear the road, if you will
[Horse Whinnying]
- [Man] Squire!
- Hyah!
Wait She was a suicide
Cut off her head
And return the ax
[Bleating]
You know this place, my lord?
Know it? I know all of it
- [Children Chattering]
- [Woman] I told you to stop that now!
That is the man
We need all these horses shod
We need food, and we'll pay
Says yes
The blacksmith is the man you seek
His name is Balian
But know that he mourns
The burial we passed at the crossroads
was for his wife
Their child died She was overcome
with grief and killed herself
Do you still advise
what you advised upon the road?
I do, my lord
What does that say?
"What man is a man who does not
make the world better? '"
Leave me with this man
I am sorry you lost
your wife and child
I also have lost
Some say Jerusalem is the very center
of the world for asking forgiveness
For myself, I call it here
Now
I knew your mother
To be courteous, I should say
that it was against her objections
But
I did not force her
I loved her
in my fashion
Balian, I am your father
I have forgiveness to ask of you
[Metal Scraping]
I am Godfrey, the Baron of Ibelin
I have 100 men at arms in Jerusalem
If you will come with me,
you will have a living
and you will have my thanks
There it is
Whoever you are, my lord
my place is here
What made it your place is now dead
You will never see me again
If you want anything of me,
take it now
I want nothing
I am sorry for your troubles
God protect you
Jerusalem is easy to find
You come to where
the men speak Italian
then continue
until they speak something else
We go by Messina
Good-bye
[Children Shouting, Chattering]
They would have taken you to Jerusalem
away from all this
I'm your priest, Balian
I tell you, God has abandoned you
I swear to you
you will have no peace
so long as you stay here
No man ever needed a new world more
The village does not want you
If you take the Crusade
you may relieve
your wife's position in hell
l-I put it delicately...
She was a suicide She is in hell
Though what she does there
without a head...
[Yelling]
[Screaming]
[Whinnying]
[Godfrey] Wait here
Have you come to kill me?
Even these days, it is not easy
Well?
I have done
murder
Haven't we all?
Is it true
that in Jerusalem I can erase my sins
and those of my wife?
Is it true?
We can find out together
Show me your hand
[Spits, Sighs]
- Pick it up Let's see what you're made of
- His hand is hurt, my lord
- I once fought two days with an arrow through my testicle
- Ah, yes
Never use a low guard You fight well
Let's work on your skills
Take a high guard, like this
The Italians call it la "poste di falcone"...
the guard of the hawk
Strike from high, like this
[Grunts] Do it
Sword straighter Come on
Leg back, bend your knees
Sword straighter
Defend yourself
The blade isn't
the only part of a sword
Attack
[Grunting]
I have your leave?
Pay attention
[Shouting, Grunting]
- [Blades Clanging]
- [Hoof beats, Horses Whinnying]
What's this?
You have with you a man, Balian,
who killed a priest
I'm charged by the lord bishop
to bring him back
What he says is true
They have the right to take me
I say he is innocent of the charge
If you say he's guilty, then we'll fight,
and God will decide the truth of it
My German friend
is a close student of the law
Just give him to me
I'll fight you for something else
He's a murderer
So am I
Whoever dies here today,
you will certainly be among them
You're a lord
I must give you the road
Hyah! Hyah!
Heinrich!
[Shouts In Foreign Language]
- Aah!
- [Horses Whinnying]
To the flanks!
[Yelling]
Aah!
- Hyah!
- Aah!
[Grunting, Groaning]
[Yelling]
[Growling, Yelling]
- Hyah!
- Come on!
Hyah!
[Yells]
Thank the bishop for his love!
[Groans]
[Hisses, Groans]
[Panting]
[Snaps]
Ah Well, you broke the arrow
If the ribs are broken,
some marrow may enter the blood
in which case
you'll take a fever and die
Or a cyst will form
and you'll live
You're in the hands of God
Get me some more wine
It was not
that they had no right to take you
It was the way they asked
They had the right to take me
So do I
To kill an infidel is not murder
It is the path to heaven
- [Bleating]
- [Bell Ringing]
To kill an infidel is not murder
It is the path to heaven
Who is this?
[Godfrey] My son
Would I have fought you when you
were still capable of making bastards
[Laughing]
I knew your mother
when she was making hers
Fortunately, you're too old
to be one of mine
[Chuckles]
All will be settled
[Continues Chuckling]
[Chattering In Arabic]
[Shallow Breathing]
Do you know
what lies in the holy land?
A new world
A man who, in France, had not a house
is, in the holy land,
the master of a city
He who was the master of a city
begs in the gutter
There, at the end of the world
you are not what you were born
but what you have it in yourself to be
I hope to find forgiveness
That's all I know
[Shallow Breathing Continues]
Whatever your position,
you are of my house
and that means you will serve
the king of Jerusalem
What could a king ask
of a man like me?
A better world than has ever been seen
A kingdom of conscience
A kingdom of heaven
There is peace
between Christian and Muslim
We live together
Or, between Saladin
and the king, we try
Did you think that lay
at the end of Crusade?
It does
My son, you are all that survives me
Do not disappoint me
[Man Chanting Prayer]
Who are those men?
Muslims Saracens
And they're allowed their prayers?
- [Chanting Continues]
- If they pay the tax
Subhena Rabi Alladin
Praise be to God
It is proper to praise him
Sounds like our prayers
It's good
[Man Speaking Arabic]
When the king is dead
Jerusalem will be no place
for friends of Muslims
or traitors to Christendom
like your father
I am Guy de Lusignan
Remember that name
And me
- Keep it
- My lord
How will you ride if you have
no stick to beat the horse?
He will be king in Jerusalem one day
[Whispering]
Holy mother of God, pray for us
now and at the hour of our death
(music)[Man Singing]
Balian
Hurry
I can go no further
[Godfrey Wheezing, Faint]
Get on your knees
[Shallow Breathing]
[Wheezing]
Be without fear in the face of your enemies
Be brave and upright
that God may love thee
Speak the truth always,
even if it leads to your death
Safeguard the helpless and do no wrong
That is your oath
And that's so you remember it
Arise a knight and baron of Ibelin
[Muttering]
Defend the king
If the king is no more
protect the people
It is time now, my lord, to confess
to holy God, not your son
Are you sorry for all your sins?
For all but one
[Sighs]
[Speaking Latin]
You sail now for Jerusalem, as your father
wished I'll follow within the week
This journey can be perilous
If God has purpose for you there,
he'll keep you safe in his hands
If not
God bless you
- [Thunderclap]
- [Man Screaming]
[Whinnying]
[Horse Whinnying]
[Whinnying Continues]
[Nickers]
Whoa Whoa
Whoa
[Man Shouts In Arabic]
He says that is his horse
Why would it be his horse?
Because it is on his land!
I took this horse from the sea
[Translating Into Arabic]
[Responding In Arabic]
He says you are a great liar
and he will fight you
because you are a liar
I have no desire to fight
Then you must give him the horse
No
[Shouts In Arabic]
[Yells]
Fight me fairly!
- [Arabic]
- Why? Why should he?
- He is a knight
- And I am the baron of Ibelin
[Translating Into Arabic]
[Speaking Arabic]
He says the baron of Ibelin is old
He knew him at Damascus
I am the new one
[Yelling, Grunting]
[Arabic] That's enough
Stop!
[Arabic]
Ibelin, that's enough!
Ibelin, no!
You have taken it very well
that I have killed your master
It was the end of his time
All is as God wills it
Now finish this
[Sighs] Take me to Jerusalem
[Sheep Bleating]
[Shouting, Chattering]
Very good horse
Take the horse
and be about your business
This is your prize of battle
I am your prisoner...
your slave, should you wish it
I have been a slave,
or very near to one
I will never keep one,
nor suffer any to be kept
Go
The man you killed was a very great
cavalier among the Muslims
His name was Mummad al Fais
I will pray for him
Your quality will be known
among your enemies
before ever you meet them, my friend
Old man, where is it
that Christ was crucified?
Salaam alaikum
[Sighs]
[Thinking]
God, what is it you want of me?
[Thinking] How can you be in hell
when you're in my heart?
- You must have known him
- What?
Since you carry Godfrey's sword,
you must have known him
I did
A man my size?
Yes
And green eyes
Blue
Come with us
my lord
[Giggling]
[Bells Pealing]
- [Speaks Arabic]
- [Arabic]
- [Whinnying]
- Stop
You're hurting him
Whoa Whoa
Where's your master?
I have none
Give me some water
Thank you for the drink
If you happen to see Balian,
the son of Godfrey
tell him that Sibylla called
- [Horse Whinnies]
- [Sibylla Speaks Command In Arabic]
So, how find you Jerusalem?
God does not speak to me
Not even on the hill
where Christ died
I am outside God's grace
I have not heard that
At any rate, it seems
I have lost my religion
I put no stock in religion
By the word "religion".
I've seen the lunacy of fanatics of every
denomination be called the will of God
Holiness
is in right action
and courage on behalf of those
who cannot defend themselves
And goodness...
what God desires...
is here and here
By what you decide to do every day,
you will be a good man
Or not
Come
[Shouting, Yelling]
[Shouting Continues]
The king has made a peace with Saladin
these past six years
He holds Jerusalem as a place
for prayer for all faiths
as the Muslims did before we came
These men are Templars
They killed Arabs
[Crowd Cheering, Shouting]
So they are dying
for what the pope
would command them to do
Yes But not Christ, I think
Nor this king
[Cheering Continues]
Who says I raid?
That witness
all of Jerusalem
holy God and me
That witness, if you call him that,
is a Saracen He lies
There will come a day,
Reynald de Chatillon
when you are not protected
by your title
Oh? When will that be?
Alert me, Tiberias, when men are equal
and the kingdom of heaven has arrived
Those Templars have been hung
for a raid that I know you commanded
Prove it
I will wait at Kerak until you do
The king will take
your castle of Kerak, Reynald
Try to take it, Tiberias
I'll be there
My lord Tiberias
My lord
It's true
You're your father's son
He was my friend
I am yours
Godfrey dead
It could have come
at a better time Come
It was shouted in the streets
that you killed a great lord of Syria
Saladin himself sent word
that your fight
did not breach the peace
that you had cause
What know you of Saladin?
That he is king of the Saracens
and that he surrounds this kingdom
He has 200,000 men in Damascus alone
He could win a war if he goes to war
and he's daily given cause for war
by fanatics newly from Europe
by Templar bastards
like Reynald de Chatillon
Here, from this room,
I keep the peace, so far as it can be kept
But Saladin and the king between them
would make a better world
If it lives only for a while,
Tiberias, it still has lived
All right
What did your father tell you
of your obligations?
That I was to be a good knight
I pray the world
and Jerusalem
can accommodate such a rarity
as a perfect knight
Have you dined?
The Princess Sibylla of Jerusalem
and her husband, Guy de Lusignan
[Tiberias] So, how many knights
did you find in France?
Fifty
They've sworn allegiance to the king?
Of course, Tiberias
Obviously
You sit at my table?
- Is it not the king's table?
- Is it? I have not seen a king at it for some years
I cannot eat
l... I am finicky about company
In France this could not inherit
But here there are no civilized rules
I have business in the East
My wife does not lament my absences
That is either the best of wives
or the very, very worst
- Do you go to meet Reynald?
- No, my lord He is in disfavor
I am a member of this court
Why should I make league
with that troublemaker?
To the very best of wives
[Speaking Arabic]
[Whispers]
My lord, the king will see him now
The king would see Godfrey's son
I'll take him
This morning I spoke
without knowing who you were
I knew who you were It's unmistakable
I loved your father
and I shall love you
Do you fear being with me?
No
- And yes
- [Chuckles]
A woman in my place has two faces
One for the world
and one which she wears in private
With you I'll be only Sibylla
[Floor Creaks]
[Whispers]
Tiberias thinks me unpredictable
I am unpredictable
No There
Come forward
I am glad to meet Godfrey's son
He was one of my greatest teachers
He was there when, playing with
the other boys, my arm was cut
And it was he, not my father's physicians,
who noticed that I felt no pain
He wept when he gave
my father the news
that I am a leper
The Saracens say that this disease
is God's vengeance
against the vanity of our kingdom
As wretched as I am
these Arabs believe that the chastisement
that awaits me in hell
is far more severe and lasting
If that's true, I call it unfair
Come Sit
When I was 16 I won a great victory
I felt, in that moment,
I would live to be 100
Now I know I shall not see 30
You see, none of us
choose our end, really
A king may move a man
A father may claim a son
But remember that even
when those who move you be kings
or men of power
your soul is in your keeping alone
When you stand before God,
you cannot say
"But I was told by others to do thus"
or that virtue
was not convenient at the time
This will not suffice
- Remember that
- I will
Then go now
to your father's house at Ibelin
and from there
protect the pilgrim road
Protect the helpless
And then perhaps one day
when I am helpless,
you will come and protect me
There, my lord
Ibelin
[Speaks Arabic]
[Arabic Continues]
[Arabic]
Your father was important
His lands were not
That will suit me
[Yelling, Laughing]
My lord, you have a thousand acres
a hundred families
You have Christians, Jews, Muslims
You have 50 pairs of oxen
What we do not have is water
[Speaking Arabic]
[Arabic]
Right Stone the walls
- [Shouting In Arabic]
- [Arabic]
[Arabic Continues]
[Arabic]
[Shouting, Cheering]
[Shouting In Arabic]
[Arabic]
I'm on my way to Cana
Where Jesus changed water to wine
But a better trick would be
to change you to a nobleman
That should be easy In France
a few yards of silk can make a nobleman
[Giggles]
I expect your hospitality
It is given
- [Balian] Latif
- [Arabic]
[Children Shouting]
[Arabic]
What?
It seems years
since I've seen a woman eat
Truly?
I was watching you today
You've been given a patch of dirt,
and it seems
you will build a new Jerusalem here
It is my land
Who would I be
if I did not try to make it better?
[Man Chanting Prayer In Arabic]
[Responding In Arabic]
They try to be one...
one heart
one morality
Their prophet says, "Submit"
Jesus says
"Decide"
Did you decide on Guy?
Guy was chosen by my mother
I was 15 at the time
[Sighs]
[Hinge Creaks]
Why do you think I'm here?
I know that Ibelin
is not on the way to Cana
What else do you know, my lord?
I know that you are a princess
and I am no lord
You're a knight
Neither earned nor proved
I'm not here with you because
I'm... I'm bored or wicked
I'm here because...
because in the East
between one person and another
there is only light
Halt!
This caravan is armed, Reynald
Good No sport otherwise
[Guy] They've seen us
Go after them
- A rider is getting away
- It's a broad desert Nothing'll come of it
- I prefer not to be hanged before my wife is queen
- [Reynald] Don't worry
"Who but Reynald?" they'll say
It's always me They'll believe it
in Jerusalem, I assure you
- You were at Nazareth, praying
- You're a dangerous man
If the war's to be now or later,
I would have it now
- How long can the leper last?
- God wills it God wills it!
- [All Shouting] God wills it!
- Jerusalem!
Charge!
It's you! Ha!
[Tiberias] Guy de Lusignan and
Reynald de Chatillon, with the Templars
have attacked a Saracen caravan
- [Angry Shouting]
- Liar!
[Guy] Silence!
It was no caravan
It was an army headed for Bethlehem
to desecrate the birthplace of our Lord!
Reynald, with the Templars, have
broken the king's pledge of peace
Saladin will come into this kingdom...
Tiberias knows more than a Christian
should about Saladin's intentions
[Murmuring]
That I would rather live with men
than kill them
is certainly why you are alive
That sort of Christianity
has its uses, I suppose
- [Scattered Laughing]
- We must not go to war with Saladin!
- We do not want it, and we may not win it
- Blasphemy!
[All Shouting] Blasphemy!
An army of Jesus Christ, which bears
his holy cross, cannot be beaten
[Templar Master] Does the count
of Tiberias suggest that it could be?
There must be war God wills it!
- God wills it!
- [All Shouting]
God wills it!
Silence!
Saladin has crossed the Jordan
with 200,000 men
He will make first for Kerak
and Reynald de Chatillon
My lord...
We must meet him
before he reaches Kerak
I will lead the army
My lord, if you travel, you'll die
Send word to Balian
to protect the villagers
Assemble the army
[Cheering]
What becomes of us?
The world will decide
The world always decides
My lord!
The king is marching on Kerak
[Braying]
[Shouting]
Let's go! Hurry Straight on!
Saracen cavalry
They're coming to close Reynald in
These people are not safe
outside the walls
Saladin will certainly come behind him
[Man Shouting In Arabic]
Go into the fortress now
- [Speaks Arabic]
- Hyah! Hah!
- Hyah! Hyah!
- Hyah!
Visitors!
My lord Balian!
My lord Reynald prays
you bring your force into Kerak
Thank you, but no
If we do, these people will die
We'll hold the Saracen cavalry
until the king arrives
So be it Hyah!
We cannot attack that and live
[Boy Shouts In Arabic]
- My lady
- [Coughing] What do you look at?
A knight
His men
Are you with me?
[Kisses]
[Man Yells In Arabic]
[Yelling]
Forward!
Divide!
[Screams]
[Grunts]
[Man Grunts]
Your quality will be known
among your enemies
before ever you meet them, my friend
You were not that man's servant
No He was my servant
- What becomes of us?
- As you deserve
You reap what you sow
You have heard of this, no?
Get up
You may go into Kerak
but you will die there
My master is here
Tell my lord Saladin
that Jerusalem has come
[Whispers] Saladin
[Speaks Arabic]
I pray you'll pull back your cavalry
and leave this matter to me
I pray you'll retire unharmed
to Damascus
Reynald of Chatillon will be punished
I swear it
Withdraw, or we will all die here
Do we have terms?
We have terms
[Groans Quietly]
I will send you my physicians
- Salaam alaikum
- Alaikum salaam
I am Reynald of Chatillon!
[Grunting]
On your knees
Lower
I am Jerusalem
And you, Reynald
will give me the kiss of peace
[Gasping]
Guard
- What are you looking at?
- A dead man
Reynald de Chatillon, you are arrested
and condemned
Come
If you continue like this
I shall have to find a use for you
If God can spare you, that is
God does not know me
Yes, but I do
- [Speaks Arabic]
- [Men Chattering]
I need you in Jerusalem
[Horse Whinnying]
- Salaam alaikum
- Alaikum salaam
Why did we retire?
Why?
God did not favor him God, alone,
determines the results of battles
The results of battles
are determined by God
but also by preparation, numbers
the absence of disease
and the availability of water
One cannot maintain a siege
with the enemy behind
How many battles did God win
for the Muslims before I came?
That is, before God determined
that I should come
Few enough
That's because we were sinful
It is because you were unprepared
If you think that way,
you shall not be king for long
When I am not king, I quake for Islam
Thank you for your visit
You promised
You promised to return Jerusalem
Don't forget
[Man Shouting Orders]
So, my friend
the time has come
to conclude my affairs
We have decided that you shall
take command of the army of Jerusalem
If I leave the army with Guy,
he will take power through my sister
and make war on the Muslims
Whatever you ask I will serve
No, hear it all before you answer
Would you marry my sister, Sibylla,
were she free of Guy de Lusignan?
And Guy?
He will be executed
along with his knights
who do not swear your allegiance
I cannot be the cause of that
"Whatever you ask I will serve"
"A king may move a man," you said
"but the soul belongs to the man"
Yes, I did
You have my love
and my answer
Oh So be it
Why do you protect Guy, hmm?
He's a man who insults you,
who hates you
who'd kill you himself
if he had the chance
Fulfill the salvation of this kingdom
Would it be so hard
to marry Sibylla?
Jerusalem has no need
of a perfect knight
No It is a kingdom of conscience
or nothing
Sibylla
Who are you to refuse a king?
I am what I am
I offer you that
and the world
You say no
Do you think I'm like Guy?
That I would sell my soul?
There'll be a day
when you will wish
you had done a little evil
to do a greater good
My lord
[Grunting]
Mmm
Do you really think the king wants you
head of the army once he's gone? Hmm?
Think your wife does?
- I have a problem
- Ah, yes Balian
I saw him at Kerak
Celebrated
Kill him
[Gasps]
Oh Hello
I was dreaming
I was back in that summer
when I defeated Saladin
Do you remember it?
I was only 16
You were a beautiful boy
- Yes
- You have always been beautiful
In every way
My beautiful sister
So beautiful
I'm sorry if I've caused you any pain
Remember me as I was
I will
Sibylla
If I have your knights
you have your wife
[Bell Tolling]
[Patriarch]
Behold your rightful queen and heir
to the throne
of the kingdom of Jerusalem
[Chanting]
Yes! Yes! Yes!
I, Sibylla, by the grace
of the Holy Spirit
choose as king Guy de Lusignan
the man who's been my husband
With the help of God,
he will rule his people well
[Patriarch]
Long live the king in prosperity
[With Crowd]
Long live the king Long live the king
Long live the king
[Yells]
[Ferocious Yell]
Is this why you came to the Holy Land?
Come on!
[Shrieks]
Leave us
[Grunting]
- The king is in heaven?
- Yes
- Have the Templars killed Balian?
Reynald
give me a war
That is what I do
[Men Screaming]
I am what I am
Someone has to be
[Screaming In Arabic]
Saladin's sister
I know
Saladin achki
- Salaam alaikum
- Alaikum salaam
Speak
The sultan demands the return
of his sister's body
the heads of those responsible
and the surrender of Jerusalem
[All Scoffing]
Does he?
What answer do you return to Saladin?
- This
- [Grunts]
[All Shouting]
- [Shouting In Arabic]
- Take the head to Damascus
[Arabic Continues]
I am Jerusalem
- Assemble the army! Yea!
- [All Cheering]
[Cheering Fades]
[Cheering]
Now this assembly of barons
and all Jerusalem is complete
There are those among you
who may disagree with our succession
but it is war
[Soldiers] Aye!
And I am
the king
We march at once
What say this council?
- [All] Aye!
- No
If you must have war, this army
cannot move away from water
You have a chance to hold the city
but if you move out against Saladin
this army will be destroyed
and the city left defenseless
When I wish a blacksmith
to advise me in war
I will tell him
Saladin wants you to come out
He is waiting for you
to make that mistake
He knows his man
- We should meet the enemies of God
- Aye!
And so we shall
Then you do so without my knights
Then I will have the glory, Tiberias
You had yours years and years ago
It's time for mine
[Officer] Forward!
Forward!
Tiberias
When Saladin has finished with Guy,
he will come
We must look to the defenses
The king's dead
and Jerusalem along with him
[Officer] Keep to your lines!
You go with the army?
My order is with the army
You go to certain death
All death is certain
I shall tell your father
what I've seen you become
When Saladin comes
we're not defensible
Save the people from what I have done
I will
[Coughing]
[Sizzling]
[Speaks Arabic]
God wills it
Can you sense it?
There has been no messenger
I drink water for what it is
I did not give the cup to you
No, my lord
[Shouts]
[Gurgling]
A king does not kill a king
Were you not close enough
to a great king
to learn by his example?
I've given Jerusalem my whole life
Everything
First I thought we
were fighting for God
Then I realized we were fighting
for wealth and land
I was ashamed
Tiberias
There is no more Jerusalem
I shall go to Cyprus
Will you come with me?
No
You are your father's son
Saladin must move his army
from water to water
That gives you four days, maybe five
God be with you
He's no longer with me
[Man Speaking Arabic]
- Mark 400
- Four hundred!
Four hundred!
They're here
It is only one man
No They're here
This is the only section of the wall
that they can attack
once they begin to bombard the walls
They will stop only to avoid hitting
their own siege towers as they come in
We take the bombardment
When they cease firing, we fire
We must leave the city
How exactly, my lord bishop?
The fastest horses from a lesser gate
And the people?
It is unfortunate about the people,
but it is God's will
[Man] Silence!
[Chattering]
Silence!
[Chattering Ceases]
It has fallen to us
to defend Jerusalem
and we have made our preparations
as well as they can be made
None of us took this city from Muslims
No Muslim, of the great army
now coming against us
was born when this city was lost
We fight over an offense
we did not give
against those
who were not alive to be offended
What is Jerusalem?
Your holy places lie
over the Jewish temple
that the Romans pulled down
The Muslim places of worship
lie over yours
Which is more holy?
The wall? The mosque?
The sepulcher?
Who has claim?
No one has claim
All have claim!
- That is blasphemy
- Be quiet
We defend this city
not to protect these stones
but the people living within these walls
My lord My lord, my lord
How are we to defend Jerusalem
without knights?
- We have no knights!
- Truly?
- What is your condition?
- I'm servant to the patriarch
He's, uh, one of my servants
Is he? You were born a servant?
Kneel
Every man at arms
or capable of bearing them
kneel!
On your knees!
Be without fear
in the face of your enemies
Be brave and upright
that God may love thee
Speak the truth
even if it leads to your death
Safeguard the helpless
That is your oath
And that is so you remember it
Rise a knight
Rise a knight!
Who do you think you are?
Will you alter the world?
Does making a man a knight
make him a better fighter?
- Yes
- [Sighs]
[Approaching Hoof beats]
[Shouting In Arabic]
- My lord?
- No
When will it begin?
Soon
[Man Shouts, Indistinct]
Get them to the walls!
[Soldier]
Water! Bring water!
Get to the walls
Push!
- Run!
- Push!
[Man Shouts]
Why do they not fire back?
- They wait
- [Man Shouts In Arabic]
[Screaming]
(music)[Singing In Arabic]
That was only the first day
There may be a hundred more
Saladin will show no mercy
We must hold out
force him to offer terms
What terms?
We fight for the people...
their safety and freedom
[Grunting]
- Mercy
- No
I cannot
[Soldiers jeering]
- Four hundred!
- Fire! Fire!
[Man Screams]
- Three hundred!
- Fire!
Fire!
- One-fifty!
Line up! Fire!
Hold your fire! Hold!
[Praying In Arabic]
Fire!
[Screaming]
[Shouting In Arabic]
[Pounding Continues]
Oil! Now!
Fire!
[Screaming]
[Saladin] Who defends?
- Balian of Ibelin, the son of Godfrey
- Godfrey
Godfrey nearly killed me
in the Lebanon
Truly, I did not know he had a son
It was his son at Kerak
- The one you let live
- Yes
Perhaps you should not have
Perhaps I should have had
a different teacher
[Soldier Screaming]
[Shouts In Arabic]
[Grunting]
[Screams]
Fire!
Now!
[Praying In Arabic]
When a body is burnt
it cannot be resurrected
until judgment Day
If we do not burn these bodies
we will all be dead of disease
in three days
God will understand, my lord
And if he doesn't
then he is not God,
and we need not worry
- Salaam alaikum
- Alaikum salaam
The wall, where the Christopher Gate
used to be, has been weakened
Usually when a gate is blocked in,
it is weaker than the wall around it
- Or stronger
- It is weaker Rashid has seen it
This will be our door into Jerusalem
This is where we will make our stand
and we must prepare
Brothers! Brothers!
God has sent you this day!
You will take no prisoners!
As they did, so shall it be done!
- Allah hu akbar!
[Shouting Continues]
[Cheering]
When this wall comes down
there will be no quarter
If you throw down your arms
your families will die
We can break this army here
- [Loud Explosion]
- So I say let them come!
Let them come!
- Come on! Come on!
- [Cheering]
Come on!
[All Shouting]
They will ask for terms
They must ask for terms
Convert to Islam Repent later
You've taught me a lot about religion,
Your Eminence
Will you yield the city?
Before I lose it,
I will burn it to the ground
Your holy places, ours
Every last thing in Jerusalem
that drives men mad
I wonder if it would not
be better if you did
- You will destroy it?
- Every stone
And every Christian knight you kill
will take 10 Saracens with him
You will destroy your army here
and never raise another
I swear to God that to take this city
will be the end of you
Your city is full
of women and children
If my army will die
so will your city
You offer terms I ask none
I will give every soul safe conduct
to Christian lands
Every soul...
the women, the children, the old
and all your knights and soldiers,
and your queen
No one will be harmed
I swear to God
The Christians butchered every Muslim
within the walls when they took this city
I am not those men
I am Saladin
Saladin
Then under these terms,
I surrender Jerusalem
Salaam alaikum
And peace be with you
What is Jerusalem worth?
Nothing
Everything
I have surrendered Jerusalem
All will be safely escorted to the sea
If this is the kingdom of heaven
let God do with it as he wills
- [Cheering]
- Balian!
Balian!
[Patriarch]
Yes! Thanks to the Lord!
Your brother's kingdom
was here and here
That kingdom can never be surrendered
What should I do?
I'm still the queen of Acre,
Ashkelon, Tripoli
Decide not to be a queen
and I will come to you
This horse
is not a very good horse
I will not keep it
Thank you
And if God does not love you
how could you have done
all the things that you have done?
Peace be upon you
Alaikum salaam
A queen never walks
And yet you are walking
[Children Chattering]
- [Approaching Hoof beats]
- [Man] Forward!
Forward!
[Man] Halt!
We crusade to recover
the kingdom of Jerusalem
You go to where the men speak Italian
and then continue
until they speak something else
We've come by this road to find Balian
who was defender of Jerusalem
I am the blacksmith
And I am the king of England
[Man]
Formation! Forward!
(music)[Woman Singing
In Middle Eastern Language]
(music)[Woman Singing Continues]
(music)[Women Singing]
(music)[Choir Singing]
}}